# Information Visualization Final Project
# Dataset​ :Airplane Incidents 
 Design Overview: In the planning phase of this project, the Airplane incidents dataset really stood out to us.                We thought there’d be many avenues in which we could explore visualization with this dataset               such as finding out where plane crashes mostly happened, injury rates, etc. However upon              implementing this visualization we realized the true challenge we faced!  In our visualization, we had a heavy focus on showing the user where plane crashes               happened so we created a map that had circles representing the crash locations. We also               wanted the user to easily be able to find information a specific crash so if they were interested in                   a crash that happened in the middle of the ocean or in the middle of Russia all they have to do                     is click the circle they are curious about and they can get more information. Furthermore, we wanted to have a broad representation of crashes and countries so we              created a bar graph below the map that aggregated the crashes in specific countries and put                them side by side so the user can easily see the differences. Also we wanted to display one of the most important aspects of these incidents, human               casualty, more visually so every time a point is clicked you get a visual representation of how                 many serious, fatal, and uninjuried passengers there were. Lastly, we wanted to make the map easily tell the user were higher clusters of crashes                were happening so we correlated the lightness of red with more crashes. 
 
User tasks/taxonomies our visualization supports: ● Find extrema ​- Using the linked graph below the world map representation, the             extremum of countries are easy to find ● Details on Demand ​- When hovering over a specific point, you can see the accident               number for that point. Furthermore, When clicking on a specific point, one is able to see                all the details surrounding a plane crash incident. The accident detail box retrieves             values including accident number, event date, location, airport name, air carrier, weather            conditions, injury severity, total fatal injuries, total serious injuries, and total uninjured.            Also these details clear out as soon as another point is clicked. ● Overview first ​- Our map and graph support and overview first mentality, you can see               the trends of the countries with the bar graphs and see where many clusters are all over                 the map ● Cluster - ​The map has points all around the world that represent plane crashes and               these points naturally cluster in regions that are easily visible and easy to see for the                user ● Search vs Browse - ​The user can easily browse by looking around the map at different                points, but then search by hovering over the points and seeing the specific accident              number  ● Compute Derived Value - ​When a point is clicked a bar graph is created that computes                the derived value of serious injuries, fatal injuries, and total uninjured. In addition, We              
 
have used this taxonomy to create the aggregated values for the number of accidents in               each country.  ● Filtering - When the user types a specific year number in the filter box, they can filter                 every incident that took place after the specified year. 
